README.md, before:

# Github Directory (ghd) [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/okkays/ghd.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/okkays/ghd) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/okkays/ghd/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/okkays/ghd)

Utility to manage cloning and cd'ing to Github repos.

![Animated example of ghding a couple disparate repos](ghd.gif)

The idea behind this tool is to give an easy to access, centralized location for local clones of Github repositories.

## Dependencies

- For `ghd` and `ghd <ambiguous term>`, you'll want [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) in your `PATH`.
- To get repo lists from github, you'll want the [Github CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli).  Make sure to run `gh auth login` to set it up.

If you want to help with development, grab:

- [bats-core](https://github.com/bats-core/bats-core#installation) for testing
- [kcov](http://simonkagstrom.github.io/kcov/index.html) for coverage

## Installation

Put `ghd` somewhere in your `PATH`, then add:

```bash
alias ghd=". ghd"
```

to your bashrc. (Sourcing the script allows it to change directory.)

## Usage

```bash
ghd <repo_name or repo url (with https://github.com or git@github.com:)>
ghd <already cloned user, org, or repo name>?!+*
ghd /
ghd
```

For example, to clone and cd to this repo:

```bash
ghd okkays/ghd
```

To then `git pull --all` updates from and cd to that same repo:

```bash
ghd okkays/ghd!
# or
ghd ghd!
# or
ghd gh!<Enter>
```

To checkout a branch, commit, etc for a repo:

```bash
ghd okkays/ghd@main
# or, to pull first:
ghd ghd@main!
# or, from a url:
ghd git@github.com:okkays/ghd@main
# or, if you're already in a repo, as a shortcut:
ghd @main
```

You can also ask `ghd` to go to a new branch using a `?`:

```bash
ghd @main?
```

To go to the root of your ghd-cloned repos:

```bash
ghd /
```

To use [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) to search through your ghd-cloned repos:

```bash
ghd
```

![Animated example of using ghd results in a fzf list](ghd_fzf.gif)

If you've already checked out some of a user's repos, you can switch to that user's directory:

```bash
ghd okkays/
```

(After installing the [Github CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli) and running `gh auth login`)

You can list a user/organization's repositories using `+`:

```bash
ghd okkays+
```

Or, you can just pull/clone them all using `*`:

```bash
ghd okkays*
```

or

```bash
ghd okkays*!
```

Finally, to switch to the root of all of your cloned repos:

```bash
ghd
```

There, you can use directory-based tools like `find`, `ag`, etc to figure out where a piece of code is.

![Animated example of using ag with ghd](ghd_ag.gif)

If you just want to use the location of the command (rather than switching directories) you can add a `?`, for example:

```bash
ls `ghd okkays/ghd?`
```

## Configuration

### Github CLI Integration

ghd can work with [Github CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli)!  Install the cli separately, and then run `gh auth login`.  Remote results should start appearing in the ghd lists, and you can type `ghd repo` instead of `your_username/repo` to clone things!

### Config Variables

ghd reads the following environment variables:

- `GHD_LOCATION`: The directory in which to store repos (`/tmp/ghd` by default).
- `GHD_USE_SSH`: Whether to clone via ssh (uses https by default).
- `PAGER`: The pager to use for showing fzf preview results.

To configure them, add (for example):

```bash
export GHD_LOCATION="$HOME/.ghd"
export GHD_USE_SSH=1
```

to `~/.bashrc`

## Running tests

Just run:

```bash
bats ./test.bats
```

I recommend using [entr](http://eradman.com/entrproject/) for this:

```bash
ls | entr bats ./test.bats
```

To get coverage results, run:

```bash
kcov --include-path=. coverage bats ./test.bats
```

This will create a `coverage` folder with test coverage results.

Commit message:

Adds repo creation to ghd
Use some/repo+ to create repos, if they don't already exist.

README.md, after:

# Github Directory (ghd) [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/okkays/ghd.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/okkays/ghd) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/okkays/ghd/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/okkays/ghd)

Utility to manage cloning and cd'ing to Github repos.

![Animated example of ghding a couple disparate repos](ghd.gif)

The idea behind this tool is to give an easy to access, centralized location for local clones of Github repositories.

## Dependencies

- For `ghd` and `ghd <ambiguous term>`, you'll want [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) in your `PATH`.
- To get repo lists from github, you'll want the [Github CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli).  Make sure to run `gh auth login` to set it up.

If you want to help with development, grab:

- [bats-core](https://github.com/bats-core/bats-core#installation) for testing
- [kcov](http://simonkagstrom.github.io/kcov/index.html) for coverage

## Installation

Put `ghd` somewhere in your `PATH`, then add:

```bash
alias ghd=". ghd"
```

to your bashrc. (Sourcing the script allows it to change directory.)

## Usage

```bash
ghd <repo_name or repo url (with https://github.com or git@github.com:)>
ghd <already cloned user, org, or repo name>?!+*
ghd /
ghd
```

For example, to clone and cd to this repo:

```bash
ghd okkays/ghd
```

To then `git pull --all` updates from and cd to that same repo:

```bash
ghd okkays/ghd!
# or
ghd ghd!
# or
ghd gh!<Enter>
```

To checkout a branch, commit, etc for a repo:

```bash
ghd okkays/ghd@main
# or, to pull first:
ghd ghd@main!
# or, from a url:
ghd git@github.com:okkays/ghd@main
# or, if you're already in a repo, as a shortcut:
ghd @main
```

You can also ask `ghd` to go to a new branch using a `?`:

```bash
ghd @main?
```

To go to the root of your ghd-cloned repos:

```bash
ghd /
```

To use [fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) to search through your ghd-cloned repos:

```bash
ghd
```

![Animated example of using ghd results in a fzf list](ghd_fzf.gif)

If you want to create a new repo, you can use:

```bash
ghd okkays/my_new_repo+
```

- The created repo will be private by default.
- This will fail if your repo already exists.

If you've already checked out some of a user's repos, you can switch to that user's directory:

```bash
ghd okkays/
```

(After installing the [Github CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli) and running `gh auth login`)

You can list a user/organization's repositories using `+`:

```bash
ghd okkays+
```

Or, you can just pull/clone them all using `*`:

```bash
ghd okkays*
```

or

```bash
ghd okkays*!
```

Finally, to switch to the root of all of your cloned repos:

```bash
ghd
```

There, you can use directory-based tools like `find`, `ag`, etc to figure out where a piece of code is.

![Animated example of using ag with ghd](ghd_ag.gif)

If you just want to use the location of the command (rather than switching directories) you can add a `?`, for example:

```bash
ls `ghd okkays/ghd?`
```

## Configuration

### Github CLI Integration

ghd can work with [Github CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli)!  Install the cli separately, and then run `gh auth login`.  Remote results should start appearing in the ghd lists, and you can type `ghd repo` instead of `your_username/repo` to clone things!

### Config Variables

ghd reads the following environment variables:

- `GHD_LOCATION`: The directory in which to store repos (`/tmp/ghd` by default).
- `GHD_USE_SSH`: Whether to clone via ssh (uses https by default).
- `PAGER`: The pager to use for showing fzf preview results.

To configure them, add (for example):

```bash
export GHD_LOCATION="$HOME/.ghd"
export GHD_USE_SSH=1
```

to `~/.bashrc`

## Running tests

Just run:

```bash
bats ./test.bats
```

I recommend using [entr](http://eradman.com/entrproject/) for this:

```bash
ls | entr bats ./test.bats
```

To get coverage results, run:

```bash
kcov --include-path=. coverage bats ./test.bats
```

This will create a `coverage` folder with test coverage results.
